DB00001  Lepirudin  liquid  Lepirudin is identical to natural hirudin except for substitution of leucine for isoleucine at the N-terminal end of the molecule and the absence of a sulfate group on the tyrosine at position 63. It is produced via yeast cells. Bayer ceased the production of lepirudin (Refludan) effective May 31, 2012.
DB00002  Cetuximab  liquid  Cetuximab is an epidermal growth factor receptor binding FAB. Cetuximab is composed of the Fv (variable; antigen-binding) regions of the 225 murine EGFr monoclonal antibody specific for the N-terminal portion of human EGFr with human IgG1 heavy and kappa light chain constant (framework) regions. Cetuximab is marketed under the brand Erbitux® by Eli Lilly and Company. In the United States, a regimen of cetuximab costs approximately $30,790 for an eight-week course.
DB00003  Dornase alfa  liquid  Dornase alfa is a biosynthetic form of human deoxyribunuclease I (DNase I) enzyme. It is produced in genetically modified Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells using recombinant DNA technology. The 260-amino acid sequence of dornase alfa is identical to the endogenous human enzyme. Dornase alfa cleaves extracellular DNA to 5´-phosphodinucleotide and 5´-phosphooligonucleotide end products without affecting intracellular DNA. In individuals with cystic fibrosis, extracellular DNA, which is an extremely viscous anion, is released by degenerating leukocytes that accumulate during inflammatory responses to infections. Enzymatic breakdown of this extracellular DNA appears to reduce sputum viscosity and viscoelasticity.
DB00004  Denileukin diftitox  liquid  A recombinant DNA-derived cytotoxic protein composed of the amino acid sequences for diphtheria toxin fragments A and B (Met 1-Thr 387)-His followed by the sequences for interleukin-2 (IL-2; Ala 1-Thr 133). It is produced in an E. coli expression system.
DB00005  Etanercept  liquid  Dimeric fusion protein consisting of the extracellular ligand-binding portion of the human 75 kilodalton (p75) tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) linked to the Fc portion of human IgG1. The Fc component of etanercept contains the CH2 domain, the CH3 domain and hinge region, but not the CH1 domain of IgG1. Etanercept is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian cell expression system. It consists of 934 amino acids.
DB00006  Bivalirudin  solid  Bivalirudin is a synthetic 20 residue peptide (thrombin inhibitor) which reversibly inhibits thrombin. Once bound to the active site, thrombin cannot activate fibrinogen into fibrin, the crucial step in the formation of thrombus. It is administered intravenously. Because it can cause blood stagnation, it is important to monitor changes in hematocrit, activated partial thromboplastin time, international normalized ratio and blood pressure.
DB00007  Leuprolide  solid  Leuprolide is a synthetic 9-residue peptide analogue of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Unlike the endogenous decapeptide GnRH, leuprolide contains a single D-amino acid (D-leucyl) residue, which helps to increase its circulating half-life from three to four minutes to approximately three hours.[A203222] As a GnRH mimic, leuprolide is capable of binding to the GnRH receptor (GnRHR) and inducing downstream modulation of both gonadotropin hormone and sex steroid levels. Prolonged activation of GnRHR results in significant downregulation of sex steroid levels, which is primarily responsible for the clinical efficacy of leuprolide in diverse conditions, including advanced prostate cancer, endometriosis, and central precocious puberty.[A203126, A203132]Leuprolide was first approved in 1985 as a daily subcutaneous injection under the tradename Lupron™ by Abbvie Endocrine Inc.[L13850] Since this initial approval, various long-acting intramuscular and subcutaneous products have been developed such that patients can be dosed once every six months.[L13781, L13790] Leuprolide remains frontline therapy in all conditions for which it is indicated for use.
DB00008  Peginterferon alfa-2a  liquid  Peginterferon alfa-2a is a form of recombinant interferon used as part of combination therapy to treat chronic Hepatitis C, an infectious liver disease caused by infection with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV). HCV is a single-stranded RNA virus that is categorized into nine distinct genotypes, with genotype 1 being the most common in the United States, and affecting 72% of all chronic HCV patients [L852]. Treatment options for chronic Hepatitis C have advanced significantly since 2011, with the development of Direct Acting Antivirals (DAAs) resulting in less use of Peginterferon alfa-2a. Peginterferon alfa-2a is derived from the alfa-2a moeity of recombinant human interferon and acts by binding to human type 1 interferon receptors. Activation and dimerization of this receptor induces the body's innate antiviral response by activating the janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway. Use of Peginterferon alfa-2a is associated with a wide range of severe adverse effects including the aggravation and development of endocrine and autoimmune disorders, retinopathies, cardiovascular and neuropsychiatric complications, and increased risk of hepatic decompensation in patients with cirrhosis. The use of Peginterferon alfa-2a has largely declined since newer interferon-free antiviral therapies have been developed.In a joint recommendation published in 2016, the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) no longer recommend Peginterferon alfa-2a for the treatment of Hepatitis C [A19593]. Peginterferon alfa-2a was used alongside [DB00811] with the intent to cure, or achieve a sustained virologic response (SVR), after 48 weeks of therapy. SVR and eradication of HCV infection is associated with significant long-term health benefits including reduced liver-related damage, improved quality of life, reduced incidence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma, and reduced all-cause mortality [A19626].Peginterferon alfa-2a is available as a fixed dose injector (tradename Pegasys) used for the treatment of chronic Hepatitis C. Approved in 2002 by the FDA, Pegasys is indicated for the treatment of HCV with [DB00811] or other antiviral drugs [FDA Label]. When combined together, Peginterferon alfa-2a and [DB00811] have been shown to achieve a SVR between 36% for genotype 1 and 59% for genotypes 2-6 after 48 weeks of treatment.
DB00009  Alteplase  liquid  Human tissue plasminogen activator, purified, glycosylated, 527 residues purified from CHO cells
DB00010  Sermorelin  liquid  Sermorelin acetate is the acetate salt of an amidated synthetic 29-amino acid peptide (GRF 1-29 NH 2 ) that corresponds to the amino-terminal segment of the naturally occurring human growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH or GRF) consisting of 44 amino acid residues
DB00011  Interferon alfa-n1  liquid  Purified, natural (n is for natural) glycosylated human interferon alpha proteins 166 residues
DB00012  Darbepoetin alfa  liquid  Human erythropoietin with 2 aa substitutions to enhance glycosylation (5 N-linked chains), 165 residues (MW=37 kD). Produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA technology.
DB00013  Urokinase  liquid  Urokinase is an endogenous peptide that is cleaved in the presence of plasmin between lysine 158 and isoleucine 159 to yield active urokinase.[A191943] Urokinase remains connected between these 2 chains by a sulfhydryl bond.[A191943]Urokinase was granted FDA approval on 16 January 1978.[L12138]
DB00014  Goserelin  solid  Goserelin is a synthetic hormone. In men, it stops the production of the hormone testosterone, which may stimulate the growth of cancer cells. In women, goserelin decreases the production of the hormone estradiol (which may stimulate the growth of cancer cells) to levels similar to a postmenopausal state. When the medication is stopped, hormone levels return to normal.
DB00015  Reteplase  liquid  Human tissue plasminogen activator, purified, glycosylated, 355 residues purified from CHO cells. Retavase is considered a "third-generation" thrombolytic agent, genetically engineered to retain and delete certain portions of human tPA. Retavase is a deletion mutein of human tPA formed by deleting various amino acids present in endogenous human tPA. Retavase contains 355 of the 527 amino acids of native human tPA (amino acids 1-3 and 176-527), and retains the activity-related kringle-2 and serine protease domains of human tPA. Three domains are deleted from retavase - kringle-1, finger, and epidermal growth factor (EGF).
DB00016  Erythropoietin  liquid  Erythropoietin (EPO) is a growth factor produced in the kidneys that stimulates the production of red blood cells. It works by promoting the division and differentiation of committed erythroid progenitors in the bone marrow [FDA Label]. Epoetin alfa (Epoge) was developed by Amgen Inc. in 1983 as the first rhEPO commercialized in the United States, followed by other alfa and beta formulations. Epoetin alfa is a 165-amino acid erythropoiesis-stimulating glycoprotein produced in cell culture using recombinant DNA technology and is used for the treatment of patients with anemia associated with various clinical conditions, such as chronic renal failure, antiviral drug therapy, chemotherapy, or a high risk for perioperative blood loss from surgical procedures [FDA Label]. It has a molecular weight of approximately 30,400 daltons and is produced by mammalian cells into which the human erythropoietin gene has been introduced. The product contains the identical amino acid sequence of isolated natural erythropoietin and has the same biological activity as the endogenous erythropoietin. Epoetin alfa biosimilar, such as Retacrit (epoetin alfa-epbx or epoetin zeta), has been formulated to allow more access to treatment options for patients in the market [L2784]. The biosimilar is approved by the FDA and EMA as a safe, effective and affordable biological product and displays equivalent clinical efficacy, potency, and purity to the reference product [A7504]. Epoetin alfa formulations can be administered intravenously or subcutaneously.
DB00017  Salmon calcitonin  liquid  Synthetic peptide, 32 residues long formulated as a nasal spray.
DB00018  Interferon alfa-n3  liquid  Purified, natural (n is for natural) human interferon alpha proteins (consists of 3 forms or polymorphisms including 2a, 2b and 2c). 166 residues, some are glycosylated (MW range from 16 kD to 27 kD).
DB00019  Pegfilgrastim  liquid  Pegfilgrastim is a PEGylated form of the recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) analogue, [filgrastim].[A187601] It is used to decrease the incidence of infection, as manifested by febrile neutropenia, in patients with with non-myeloid cancer receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer treatment. Some patients with greater risk factors may develop febrile neutropenia from myelosuppressive therapy and are susceptible to an increased risk of developing infections. Although the risk of developing febrile neutropenia is less than 20% in many readily used chemotherapy regimens,[L9782] infections pose risks of hospitalization and mortalities.[A187631] Due to the relatively short circulating half-life of filgrastim, a 20 kDa PEG moiety was covalently conjugated to the N-terminus of filgrastim (at the methionine residue) to develop a longer acting version of the drug.[A29, A187607] Due to a longer half-life and slower elimination rate than filgrastim, pegfilgrastim requires less frequent dosing than filgrastim. However, pegfilgrastim retains the same biological activity as filgrastim and binds to the same G-CSF receptor to stimulate the proliferation, differentiation, and activation of neutrophils.[A187607]First developed by Amgen, pegfilgrastim was initially approved by the FDA in 2002 and marketed as Neulasta®. It is typically administered via a subcutaneous injection. There are several pegfilgrastim biosimilars (Fulphila®, Pelgraz® or Lapelga®, Pelmeg®, Udenyca®, Ziextenzo®, and Grasustek®) that are approved for the same therapeutic indication by Health Canada, European Union (EU), and FDA.[L9779,L9785] These biosimilars are highly similar to the reference product, Neulasta®, in terms of pharmacological and pharmacokinetic profile and condition(s) of use, such as the therapeutic indication(s), dosing regimen(s), strength(s), dosage form(s), and route(s) of administration.[L9974]
DB00020  Sargramostim  liquid  Sargramostim is a human recombinant granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) expressed in yeast. It is a glycoprotein that is 127 residues. Substitution of Leu23 leads to a difference from native protein.
DB00022  Peginterferon alfa-2b  liquid  Peginterferon alfa-2b is a form of recombinant interferon used as part of combination therapy to treat chronic Hepatitis C, an infectious liver disease caused by infection with Hepatitis C Virus (HCV). HCV is a single-stranded RNA virus that is categorized into nine distinct genotypes, with genotype 1 being the most common in the United States, and affecting 72% of all chronic HCV patients [L852]. Treatment options for chronic Hepatitis C have advanced significantly since 2011, with the development of Direct Acting Antivirals (DAAs) resulting in less use of Peginterferon alfa-2b. Peginterferon alfa-2b is derived from the alfa-2b moeity of recombinant human interferon and acts by binding to human type 1 interferon receptors. Activation and dimerization of this receptor induces the body's innate antiviral response by activating the janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway. Use of Peginterferon alfa-2b is associated with a wide range of severe adverse effects including the aggravation and development of endocrine and autoimmune disorders, retinopathies, cardiovascular and neuropsychiatric complications, and increased risk of hepatic decompensation in patients with cirrhosis. The use of Peginterferon alfa-2b has largely declined since newer interferon-free antiviral therapies have been developed.In a joint recommendation published in 2016, the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) no longer recommend Peginterferon alfa-2b for the treatment of Hepatitis C [A19593]. Peginterferon alfa-2b was used alongside [DB00811] with the intent to cure, or achieve a sustained virologic response (SVR), after 48 weeks of therapy. SVR and eradication of HCV infection is associated with significant long-term health benefits including reduced liver-related damage, improved quality of life, reduced incidence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma, and reduced all-cause mortality [A19626].Peginterferon alfa-2b is available as a variable dose injectable product (tradename Pegintron) used for the treatment of chronic Hepatitis C. Approved in 2001 by the FDA, Pegintron is indicated for the treatment of HCV with [Ribavirin] or other antiviral drugs [FDA Label]. When combined together, Peginterferon alfa-2b and [Ribavirin] have been shown to achieve a SVR between 41% for genotype 1 and 75% for genotypes 2-6 after 48 weeks of treatment.
DB00023  Asparaginase Escherichia coli  liquid  Asparaginase derived from _Escherichia coli_ (L-asparagine amidohydrolase, EC 3.5.1.1) is an enzyme responsible for the metabolism of L-asparagine, by catalyzing L-asparagine into L-aspartic acid and ammonia. It also facilitates the production of oxaloacetate which is needed for general cellular metabolism. Asparaginase from _E. coli_ has clinically shown to exhibit antitumor actions in models of leukaemias [A31996, A31997]. L-asparaginase of _E. coli_ is marketed under several different trade names, including Elspar, for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) as part of a multi-agent chemotherapeutic regimen. It is available as intramuscular or intravenous injections. Therapeutic L-asparaginase from _E. coli_ works by depleting the levels of non-essential amino acid, asparagine, in lymphoblastic leukemic cells thus promoting apoptotic cell death [A31999]. For patients who develop hypersensitivity to _E. coli_-derived formulations of L-asparaginase, the use of PEGylated or non-PEGylated [DB08886] is recommended [A31999].
DB00024  Thyrotropin alfa  liquid  Thyrotropin alfa is a recombinant form of thyroid stimulating hormone used in performing certain tests in patients who have or have had thyroid cancer. It is also used along with a radioactive agent to destroy remaining thyroid tissue in certain patients who have had their thyroid gland removed because of thyroid cancer. It is a heterodimeric glycoprotein comprised of two non-covalently linked subunits, an alpha subunit of 92 amino acid residues containing two N-linked glycosylation sites and a beta subunit of 112 residues containing one N-linked glycosylation site. The alpha subunit of thyrotropin alfa, which is the effector region responsible for the stimulation of adenylate cyclase, displays close structural similarity with the alpha subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), luteinizing hormone (LH), and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). The beta subunit (TSHB) bestows its receptor specificity due to the uniqueness to TSH. The amino acid sequence of thyrotropin alfa is identical to that of human pituitary thyroid stimulating hormone.
DB00025  Antihemophilic factor, human recombinant  solid  Human recombinant antihemophilic factor (AHF) or Factor VIII, 2332 residues, glycosylated, produced by CHO cells
DB00026  Anakinra  liquid  Anakinra is a recombinant, nonglycosylated human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra). The difference  between anakinra and the native human IL-1Ra is that anakinra has an extra methionine residue at the amino terminus. It is manufactured by using the E. coli expression system. Anakinra is composed of 153 amino acid residues. FDA approved on November 14, 2001.
DB00027  Gramicidin D  liquid  Gramcidin D is a heterogeneous mixture of three antibiotic compounds, gramicidins A, B and C, making up 80%, 6%, and 14% respectively all of which are obtained from the soil bacterial species Bacillus brevis and called collectively gramicidin D. Gramcidins are 15 residue peptides with alternating D and L amino acids, which assemble inside of the hydrophobic interior of the cellular lipid bilayer to form a β-helix. Active against most Gram-positive bacteria and some Gram-negative organisms, Gramicidin D is used primarily as a topical antibiotic and is also found in Polysporin ophthalmic solution.
DB00028  Human immunoglobulin G  liquid  Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) is a mixture of IgG1 and other antibodies derived from healthy human plasma via Cohn fractionation. The purification process includes cold alcohol fractionation, polyethylene glycol precipitation, and ion exchange chromatography. IVIg contains the same distribution of IgG antibody subclasses as is found in the general human population. IgG subclasses are fully represented in the following proportions: 70.3% IgG1, 24.7% IgG2, 3.1% IgG3, and 1.9% IgG4. IVIg is used in the treatment of immunodeficiencies, as well as autoimmune and inflammatory disorders.
DB00029  Anistreplase  liquid  Human tissue plasminogen activator, purified, glycosylated, 527 residues purified from CHO cells. Eminase is a lyophilized (freeze-dried) formulation of anistreplase, the p-anisoyl derivative of the primary Lys-plasminogen-streptokinase activator complex (a complex of Lys-plasminogen and streptokinase). A p-anisoyl group is chemically conjugated to a complex of bacterial-derived streptokinase and human Plasma-derived Lys-plasminogen proteins.
DB00030  Insulin human  liquid  Human Insulin, also known as Regular Insulin, is a short-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology and is identical to endogenously produced insulin. Typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus, insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions.Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after trying several oral medications such as [DB00331], [DB01120], or [DB01261] have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own. Marketed as the brand name product Humulin R or Novolin R, human insulin begins to exert its effects within 30 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 3-4 hours after administration. Due to its quick onset of action, human insulin is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as [DB01307], [DB09564], and [DB00047] to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia.Human insulin is also available in an inhalable form, intended to be used as a bolus meal-time insulin. Exubera was the first inhaled insulin available on the market and was developed by Inhale Therapeutics (later named Nektar Therapeutics). Unfortunately, limited uptake by physicians and patients, poor sales, bulky packaging, and concerns over the possible impact on lung cancer development resulted in Exubera products being withdrawn from the US markets [A176005]. Exubera was followed by Afrezza, a monomeric inhaled insulin developed by Mannkind Corporation, which received FDA approval in 2016. While still available in the US, Afrezza has had similar concerns associated with its use, and had an FDA "black box" warning added to it to warn about use in patients with chronic lung disease. Afrezza does not currently have Health Canada or European Medicines Agency approval for marketing in Canada or the EU. Human Insulin is a 51 residue peptide hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology by inserting the human insulin gene into Escherichia coli bacteria or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structure is identical to native human insulin, with two amino acid chains covalently linked by disulfide bonds. Human insulin is also available in an intermediate-acting form as NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) as the marketed products Novolin N and Humulin N. NPH insulin is provided as a crystalline suspension of insulin with protamine and zinc, resulting in an onset of action in 1 to 3 hours, duration of action up to 24 hours, and peak action from 6 to 8 hours. Due to the added crystals, NPH insulin is typically cloudy when compared to other forms of insulin and has a neutral pH.Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy.
DB00031  Tenecteplase  liquid  Tenecteplase is a tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) developed from modifications of natural human tPA complementary DNA (cDNA). It is a 527 amino acid with a substitution of threonine 103 with asparagine and substitution of asparagine 117 with glutamine within the kringle 1 domain, and a tetra-alanine substitution at amino acids 296-299 in the protease domain.
DB00032  Menotropins  liquid  Menotropins contains follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) purified from the urine of postmenopausal women.  It is used as a fertility medication that is injected either subcutaneously or intramuscularly. It is composed of LH with 2 subunits, alpha = 92 residues, beta = 121 residues and FSH with 2 subunits, alpha = 92 residues, beta=111 residues.
DB00033  Interferon gamma-1b  liquid  Human Interferon gamma-1b (140 residues), produced from E. coli. Production of Actimmune is achieved by fermentation of a genetically engineered Escherichia coli bacterium containing the DNA which encodes for the human protein. Purification of the product is achieved by conventional column chromatography. The sequence displayed is a cDNA sequence which codes for human interferon gamma, as described by Gray et. al. and not specifically interferon gamma 1b.
DB00034  Interferon alfa-2a, Recombinant  liquid  Interferon a (human leukocyte protein moiety reduced). A type I interferon consisting of 165 amino acid residues with lysine in position 23. This protein is produced by recombinant DNA technology and resembles interferon secreted by leukocytes. It is used extensively as an antiviral or antineoplastic agent. An oral form is being developed by Amarillo Biosciences.
DB00035  Desmopressin  solid  Desmopressin (dDAVP), a synthetic analogue of 8-arginine vasopressin (ADH), is an antidiuretic peptide drug modified by deamination of 1-cysteine and substitution of 8-L-arginine by 8-D-arginine. ADH is an endogenous pituitary hormone that has a crucial role in the control of the water content in the body. Upon release from the stimulation of increased plasma osmolarity or decreased circulating blood volume, ADH mainly acts on the cells of the distal part of the nephron and the collecting tubules in the kidney [T28]. The hormone interacts with V1, V2 or V3 receptors with differing signal cascade systems.Desmopressin displays enhanced antidiuretic potency, fewer pressor effects due to V2-selective actions, and a prolonged half-life and duration of action compared to endogenous ADH [A31661]. It has been employed clinically since 1972 and is available in various formulations including intranasal solution, intravenous solution, oral tablet and oral lyophilisate [A31662]. Desmopressin is indicated for the treatment of polyuric conditions including primary nocturnal enuresis, nocturia, and diabetes insipidus. It was also newly approved for the treatment of mild classical hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease for minor surgeries. The active ingredient in most formulations is desmopressin acetate. Nocdurna, or desmopressin acetate, was approved by the FDA on June 21st, 2018 for the treatment of nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria in adults. It is available as a sublingual tablet.
DB00036  Coagulation factor VIIa Recombinant Human  liquid  Recombinant human coagulation Factor VIIa (rFVIIa), intended for promoting hemostasis by activating the extrinsic pathway of the coagulation cascade. NovoSeven is a vitamin K-dependent glycoprotein consisting of 406 amino acid residues. Cloned and expressed in hamster kidney cells, the protein is catalytically active in a two-chain form.
DB00038  Oprelvekin  liquid  Oprelvekin, the active ingredient in Neumega®, is recombinant Interleukin-11 (IL-11), which is produced in Escherichia coli (E. coli) by recombinant DNA technology. With a molecular mass of approximately 19,000 daltons, the non-glycosylated protein is 177 amino acids in length in comparison to the natural IL-11, which is 178 amino acid long. However, it displays comparable biological activity compared to the natural IL-11 _in vitro_ and _in vivo_. Oprelvekin works by stimulating megakaryocytopoiesis and thrombopoiesis. In mice and nonhuman primate studies of animals with moderate and severe myelosuppression, in addition to compromised hematopoiesis, oprelvekin was shown to potently induce thrombopoiesis and improve platelet nadirs and accelerated platelet recoveries compared to controls. In animal studies, oprelvekin was also shown to regulate intestinal epithelium growth by enhancing healing of gastrointestinal lesions, inhibit adiopegenesis and macrophageal released pro-inflammatory cytokines, and induce acute phase protein synthesis.
DB00039  Palifermin  liquid  Palifermin is a recombinant human keratinocyte growth factor (KGF). It is 140 residues long, and is produced using E. coli.
DB00040  Glucagon  liquid  Glucagon is a 29 amino acid hormone used as a diagnostic aid in radiologic exams to temporarily inhibit the movement of the gastrointestinal tract and to treat severe hypoglycemia.[L7634,L7637,L7640,L7643,L8519] Glucagon raises blood sugar through activation of hepatic glucagon receptors, stimulating glycogenolysis and the release of glucose.[L7640,L7643]Glucagon was granted FDA approval on 14 November 1960.[L7631]
DB00041  Aldesleukin  liquid  Aldesleukin, a lymphokine, is produced by recombinant DNA technology using a genetically engineered E. coli strain containing an analog of the human interleukin-2 gene. Genetic engineering techniques were used to modify the human IL-2 gene, and the resulting expression clone encodes a modified human interleukin-2. This recombinant form differs from native interleukin-2 in the following ways: a) Aldesleukin is not glycosylated because it is derived from E. coli; b) the molecule has no N-terminal alanine; the codon for this amino acid was deleted during the genetic engineering procedure; c) the molecule has serine substituted for cysteine at amino acid position 125.
DB00042  Botulinum Toxin Type B  liquid  Neurotoxin produced by fermentation of clostridium botulinum type B. The protein exists in noncovalent association with hemagglutinin and nonhemagglutinin proteins as a neurotoxin complex. The neurotoxin complex is recovered from the fermentation process and purified through a series of precipitation and chromatography steps.
DB00043  Omalizumab  solid  Omalizumab, manufactured by _Genentech_, was first FDA approved in 2003 to treat adults and children 12 years of age and older with moderate to severe persistent allergic asthma which is not controlled by inhaled steroids [L4670]. Since its U.S. approval, more than 200,000 patients older than 12 with allergic asthma have been treated [L4670].  In September 2018, a new prefilled syringe formulation of this drug was approved by the FDA [L4671].
DB00044  Lutropin alfa  liquid  Lutropin alfa is a recombinant human luteinizing hormone produced in yeast with 2 subunits, alpha = 92 residues, beta = 121 residues. It is a heterodimeric glycoprotein made up of monomeric units. Lutropin alfa was the first and only recombinant human form of luteinizing hormone (LH) developed for use in the stimulation of follicular development. Its pharmacological action mimics the biological activity of endogenous LH; an acute rise of LH, or LH surge, in females triggers ovulation and the development of the corpous luteum. In males, LH stimulates Leydig cell to produce testosterone.
DB00045  Lyme disease vaccine (recombinant OspA)  liquid  Vaccine against Lyme disease that contains lipoprotein OspA, an outer surface protein of Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto ZS7, as expressed by Escherichia coli. Lipoprotein OspA is a single polypeptide chain of 257 amino acids with lipids covalently bonded to the N terminus. It is conjugated with alum (aluminum hydroxide) as an adjuvant.
DB00046  Insulin lispro  liquid  Insulin lispro is a rapid-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Insulin is prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus to mimic the activity of endogenously produced human insulin, a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions.Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin, such as insulin lispro, to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually cause cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after several oral medications such as [DB00331], [DB01120], or [DB01261] have been tried, and when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own. Marketed as the brand name product Humalog, insulin lispro begins to exert its effects within 15 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 30 to 90 minutes after administration. Due to its duration of action of around 5 hours, Humalog is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as [DB01307], [DB09564], or [DB00047] to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia.Insulin lispro is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non-pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli and was the first commercially available insulin analog. Formerly called LYSPRO from the chemical nomenclature [LYS(B28), PRO(B29)], insulin lispro differs from human insulin in that the amino acid proline at position B28 is replaced by lysine and the lysine in position B29 is replaced by proline. These biochemical changes result in a reduced tendency for self-association resulting in dissolution to a dimer and then to a monomer that is absorbed more rapidly after subcutaneous injection compared to endogenous human insulin. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy.
DB00047  Insulin glargine  liquid  Insulin glargine is a long-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Insulin is typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus to mimic the activity of endogenously produced human insulin, a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis.Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D), which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin, such as insulin glargine, to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after several oral medications such as [DB00331], [DB01120], or [DB01261] have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own. Available as the brand name product Lantus, insulin glargine has a duration of action up to 24 hours allowing for once-daily dosing, typically at bedtime. Due to its duration of action, Lantus is considered "basal insulin" as it provides low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Basal insulin is often combined with short-acting "bolus insulin" such as [DB00046], [DB01309], and [DB01306] to provide higher doses of insulin that are required following meals. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Insulin glargine is also available as the biosimilar, or "follow-on" product, Basaglar in the US and as Abasaglar in the EU. As of 2015, insulin glargine was reformulated by Sanofi as the product Toujeo in an extra-concentrated form containing 300IU/mL (compared to 100IU/mL contained in Lantus). Use of the higher concentrated Toujeo as compared to Lantus results in slightly different pharmacokinetics, with a later onset (up to 6 hours) and duration of action (up to 30 hours). Insulin glargine is produced by recombinant DNA technology using a non-pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli (K12) as the production organism. Insulin glargine differs from endogenous human insulin by the replacement of an asparagine residue at position A21 of the A-chain with glycine and addition of two arginines to the C-terminus (positions B31 and 32) of the B-chain. The resulting protein is soluble at pH 4 and forms microprecipitates at physiological pH 7.4 allowing for the slow release of small amounts of insulin glargine, giving the drug a long duration of action and no pronounced peak concentration.Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy.
DB00048  Collagenase clostridium histolyticum  liquid  Collagenase clostridium histolyticum is an enzyme produced by the bacterium _Clostridium histolyticum_ that dismantles collagen. It is used as a powder-and-solvent injection kit for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture, a condition where the fingers bend towards the palm and cannot be fully straightened, and Peyronie's disease, a connective tissue disorder involving the growth of fibrous plaques in the soft tissue of the penis. BioSpecifics Technologies developed the preparation, which is manufactured and marketed by Auxilium Pharmaceuticals as Xiaflex in the US and by Sobi as Xiapex in Europe.
DB00049  Rasburicase  liquid  Rasburicase is a recombinant urate-oxidase enzyme produced by a genetically modified <i>Saccharomyces cerevisiae</i> strain. The cDNA coding for rasburicase was cloned from a strain of _Aspergillus flavus_.
